HOURS, SENATOR ELIZABETH WARREN IS GOING TO JOIN US LIVE ON THE
IS GOING TO JOIN US LIVE ON THE SET IN OUR 8:00 A.M. HOUR.
SET IN OUR 8:00 A.M. HOUR. WE LOOK FORWARD TO THAT.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO THAT. WE BEGIN WITH THIS INCREDIBLE
WE BEGIN WITH THIS INCREDIBLE STORY.
STORY. >>> CHARGES IN A MULTI-MILLION
>>> CHARGES IN A MULTI-MILLION DOLLAR ENTRANCE EXAM CHEATING
DOLLAR ENTRANCE EXAM CHEATING SCANDAL.
SCANDAL. WERE YOU GUYS SHOCKED BY THIS?
WERE YOU GUYS SHOCKED BY THIS? THIS IS A SHOCKER.
THIS IS A SHOCKER. SAM, YOU’RE NOT?
SAM, YOU’RE NOT? >> WHAT’S THE BIG DEAL?
>> WHAT’S THE BIG DEAL? ISN’T THIS HOW IT ALWAYS
ISN’T THIS HOW IT ALWAYS HAPPENS?
HAPPENS? >> SAM, WE’RE NOT DOING THIS FOR
>> SAM, WE’RE NOT DOING THIS FOR YOU.
YOU. WE’RE NOT.
WE’RE NOT. YOU WALKED RIGHT INTO THAT.
YOU WALKED RIGHT INTO THAT. IT’S NOT HAPPENING FOR AH.
IT’S NOT HAPPENING FOR AH. YOU HAVE TO TAKE YOUR S.A.T.s
YOU HAVE TO TAKE YOUR S.A.T.s JUST LIKE EVERYBODY ELSE.
JUST LIKE EVERYBODY ELSE. >> WE WERE SHOCKED AT THE
>> WE WERE SHOCKED AT THE BRAZENNESS OF IT, RIGHT?
BRAZENNESS OF IT, RIGHT? WE WEREN’T SHOCKED SOMEBODY
WE WEREN’T SHOCKED SOMEBODY TRIED TO CHEAT TO GET THEIR KIDS
TRIED TO CHEAT TO GET THEIR KIDS INTO SCHOOL.
INTO SCHOOL. >> SADLY.
>> SADLY. SADLY.
SADLY. >> THE BRAZENNESS OF IT WAS
>> THE BRAZENNESS OF IT WAS INSANE.
INSANE. PHOTO SHOPPING, HEADS ON BODIES.
PHOTO SHOPPING, HEADS ON BODIES. >> YOU CAN PAY, THAT’S LEGAL OR
>> YOU CAN PAY, THAT’S LEGAL OR GO UNDER THE TABLE AND THAT’S
GO UNDER THE TABLE AND THAT’S APPARENTLY NOT.
APPARENTLY NOT. THIS IS A DISTINCT FORM OF
THIS IS A DISTINCT FORM OF CORRUPTION.
CORRUPTION. >> I THINK THIS IS VERY -- MAYBE
>> I THINK THIS IS VERY -- MAYBE I’M NAIVE.
I’M NAIVE. NEARLY 50 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
NEARLY 50 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN CHARGED, THE LARGEST COLLEGE
CHARGED, THE LARGEST COLLEGE CHEATING SCAM EVER TO BE MADE BY
CHEATING SCAM EVER TO BE MADE BY THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE A $25
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE A $25 MILLION SCHEME ALLEGEDLY FUNDED
MILLION SCHEME ALLEGEDLY FUNDED BY WEALTHY PARENTS INCLUDING TWO
BY WEALTHY PARENTS INCLUDING TWO HOLLYWOOD ACTRESSES IN AN
HOLLYWOOD ACTRESSES IN AN ATTEMPT TO GET THEIR CHILDREN
ATTEMPT TO GET THEIR CHILDREN INTO ELITE COLLEGES LIKE YALE,
INTO ELITE COLLEGES LIKE YALE, GEORGETOWN AND THE UNIVERSITY OF
GEORGETOWN AND THE UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA. THEY ARE ACCUSED OF PAYING
THEY ARE ACCUSED OF PAYING BRIBES RANGING FROM $200,000 TO
BRIBES RANGING FROM $200,000 TO UPWARDS OF HELLO, $6.5 MILLION
UPWARDS OF HELLO, $6.5 MILLION TO COLLEGE PREP CONSULTANT
TO COLLEGE PREP CONSULTANT WILLIAM SINGER.
WILLIAM SINGER. ACCORDING TO PROSECUTORS SINGER
ACCORDING TO PROSECUTORS SINGER THEN FACILITATED WAYS -- THIS IS
THEN FACILITATED WAYS -- THIS IS WHERE I’M STUNNED -- TO HELP
WHERE I’M STUNNED -- TO HELP STUDENTS CHEAT ON ENTRANCE EXAMS
STUDENTS CHEAT ON ENTRANCE EXAMS AND BE RECRUITED AS ATHLETES
AND BE RECRUITED AS ATHLETES REGARDLESS OF THEIR ATHLETIC
REGARDLESS OF THEIR ATHLETIC ABILITIES.
ABILITIES. HOW DID THE KIDS NOT KNOW THIS
HOW DID THE KIDS NOT KNOW THIS WAS HAPPENING?
WAS HAPPENING? ARE THEY BEING BROUGHT UP TO
ARE THEY BEING BROUGHT UP TO CHEAT.
CHEAT. THIS IS HORRENDOUS.
THIS IS HORRENDOUS. THEY MUST HAVE KNOWN IN SOME
THEY MUST HAVE KNOWN IN SOME CASES.
CASES. >> THEY ARE BEING BROUGHT UP TO
>> THEY ARE BEING BROUGHT UP TO FOLLOW THEIR PARENTS TO SOME
FOLLOW THEIR PARENTS TO SOME EXTENT.
EXTENT. IN SOME CASES THE PARENTS DID
IN SOME CASES THE PARENTS DID NOT WANT THEM TO KNOW WHAT WAS
NOT WANT THEM TO KNOW WHAT WAS GOING ON.
GOING ON. IT WAS PROBABLY A WEIRD MOMENT
IT WAS PROBABLY A WEIRD MOMENT WHEN THE SOCCER COACH SHOWED UP,
WHEN THE SOCCER COACH SHOWED UP, HEY, WE’RE READY FOR YOU TO JOIN
HEY, WE’RE READY FOR YOU TO JOIN THE TEAM.
THE TEAM. THEN THE KID WAS LIKE, I DON’T
THEN THE KID WAS LIKE, I DON’T PLAY SOCCER.
PLAY SOCCER. >> THAT’S THE THING.
>> THAT’S THE THING. HOW COULD THEY GET INTO THE
HOW COULD THEY GET INTO THE SCHOOL AS AN ATHLETE AND NOT
SCHOOL AS AN ATHLETE AND NOT SHOW UP FOR PRACTICE.
SHOW UP FOR PRACTICE. >> IN SOME CASES THE COACHES
>> IN SOME CASES THE COACHES WERE IN ON THE ACTION AND BEING
WERE IN ON THE ACTION AND BEING PAID SAYING THIS PERSON IS A
PAID SAYING THIS PERSON IS A RECRUIT.
RECRUIT. THIS RIPPLES DOWN INTO THE
THIS RIPPLES DOWN INTO THE UNIVERSITY SYSTEM AS WELL.
UNIVERSITY SYSTEM AS WELL. NOT JUST THE TOP LINE STUFF
NOT JUST THE TOP LINE STUFF AMONG PARENTS AND CONSULTANTS,
AMONG PARENTS AND CONSULTANTS, ALSO HOW CERTAINLY UNIVERSITY
ALSO HOW CERTAINLY UNIVERSITY STAFF AND PERSONNEL --
STAFF AND PERSONNEL -- >> CHOSE TO PERSONALLY -- IN
>> CHOSE TO PERSONALLY -- IN SOME CASES SINGER ALLEGEDLY HAD
SOME CASES SINGER ALLEGEDLY HAD AN IMPOSTER TAKE S.A.T. TESTS
AN IMPOSTER TAKE S.A.T. TESTS FOR STUDENTS AND OTHERS
FOR STUDENTS AND OTHERS PHOTOSHOPPED FACES OF APPLICANTS
PHOTOSHOPPED FACES OF APPLICANTS ON TO PHOTOS ON THE INTERNET OF
ON TO PHOTOS ON THE INTERNET OF ATHLETES TO BOLSTER THEIR
ATHLETES TO BOLSTER THEIR ATHLETIC CREDENTIALS.
ATHLETIC CREDENTIALS. SINGER PLEADED GUILTY TO A LIST
SINGER PLEADED GUILTY TO A LIST OF CHARGES INCLUDING OBSTRUCTION
OF CHARGES INCLUDING OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE AND MONEY LAUNDERING
OF JUSTICE AND MONEY LAUNDERING AFTER AGREE TOGETHER WEAR A WIRE
AFTER AGREE TOGETHER WEAR A WIRE AND COOPERATE WITH THE FBI.
AND COOPERATE WITH THE FBI. AMONG THE HIGH PROFILE PEOPLE,
AMONG THE HIGH PROFILE PEOPLE, ACTRESS FELICITY HUFFMAN PAID
ACTRESS FELICITY HUFFMAN PAID $15,000 TO HAVE HER DAUGHTER GET
$15,000 TO HAVE HER DAUGHTER GET MORE TIME ON THE COLLEGE
MORE TIME ON THE COLLEGE ENTRANCE EXAM AND BOOST HER
ENTRANCE EXAM AND BOOST HER SCORES ON ANOTHER.
SCORES ON ANOTHER. SHE WAS RELEASED ON $250,000
SHE WAS RELEASED ON $250,000 BAIL YESTERDAY.
BAIL YESTERDAY. ACTRESS LORI LAUGHLIN, SHE AND
ACTRESS LORI LAUGHLIN, SHE AND HER HUSBAND ALLEGEDLY AGREED TO
HER HUSBAND ALLEGEDLY AGREED TO PAY BRIBES UP TO HALF A MILLION
PAY BRIBES UP TO HALF A MILLION DOLLARS TO BOOST THEIR TWO
DOLLARS TO BOOST THEIR TWO DAUGHTERS’ CHANCES TO GET INTO
DAUGHTERS’ CHANCES TO GET INTO USC.
USC. INVESTIGATORS SAY THE COLLEGES
INVESTIGATORS SAY THE COLLEGES THEMSELVES ARE NOT A TARGET OF
THEMSELVES ARE NOT A TARGET OF THE ONGOING INVESTIGATION AND NO
THE ONGOING INVESTIGATION AND NO STUDENTS CHARGED.
STUDENTS CHARGED. THE WIDE RANGING SCHEME OPERATED
THE WIDE RANGING SCHEME OPERATED FROM 2011 UP UNTIL LAST MONTH.
FROM 2011 UP UNTIL LAST MONTH. WILLIE, I FIND THIS INCREDIBLE
WILLIE, I FIND THIS INCREDIBLE AND THINK IT’S AN INCREDIBLE
AND THINK IT’S AN INCREDIBLE RELIEF FROM TRUMP NEWS AND
RELIEF FROM TRUMP NEWS AND POLITICAL NEWS, IT’S STUNNING
POLITICAL NEWS, IT’S STUNNING THE LENGTH PARENTS WILL GO AND
THE LENGTH PARENTS WILL GO AND WHAT’S THE MESSAGE PARENTS WILL
WHAT’S THE MESSAGE PARENTS WILL GO AND NOT A GOOD ONE.
GO AND NOT A GOOD ONE. >> NO.
>> NO. OF COURSE NOT.
OF COURSE NOT. IT IS STUNNING THAT PARENTS
IT IS STUNNING THAT PARENTS CHEAT TO GET YOUR KIDS IN SCHOOL
CHEAT TO GET YOUR KIDS IN SCHOOL AND IN THE NEXT TAX BRACKET,
AND IN THE NEXT TAX BRACKET, WE’VE ALL HEARD THOSE STORIES,
WE’VE ALL HEARD THOSE STORIES, BUT THIS IS SUCH AN ELABORATE
BUT THIS IS SUCH AN ELABORATE SCHEME AND WE WONDER HOW THAT
SCHEME AND WE WONDER HOW THAT WORKS.
WORKS. LET’S ASK THAT QUESTION.
LET’S ASK THAT QUESTION. TOM, LET ME START WITH YOU,
TOM, LET ME START WITH YOU, WILLIAM SINGER, THIS IS THE GUY
WILLIAM SINGER, THIS IS THE GUY MIKA WAS JUST DESCRIBING AT THE
MIKA WAS JUST DESCRIBING AT THE TOP OF THE CHAIN HERE, A COLLEGE
TOP OF THE CHAIN HERE, A COLLEGE COUNSELOR, A FOR-PROFIT COMPANY
COUNSELOR, A FOR-PROFIT COMPANY HE RUNS.
HE RUNS. COLLEGE PREP GETS YOU READY FOR
COLLEGE PREP GETS YOU READY FOR THE S.A.T., THINGS LIKE THAT.
THE S.A.T., THINGS LIKE THAT. HOW DOES IT WORK?
HOW DOES IT WORK? WALK US FROM HIM TO THE COLLEGES
WALK US FROM HIM TO THE COLLEGES THEMSELVES.
THEMSELVES. >> THERE’S A COUPLE DIFFERENT
>> THERE’S A COUPLE DIFFERENT TIERS AND COUPLE DIFFERENT WAYS
TIERS AND COUPLE DIFFERENT WAYS THEY DID IT.
THEY DID IT. THE FIRST WAY, LOOK, WE HAVE
THE FIRST WAY, LOOK, WE HAVE COACHES WE’RE ACTUALLY BRIBING.
COACHES WE’RE ACTUALLY BRIBING. A TENNIS COACH ON THE TAKE FOR
A TENNIS COACH ON THE TAKE FOR $2.7 MILLION OVER THE COURSE OF
$2.7 MILLION OVER THE COURSE OF THIS SCHEME.
THIS SCHEME. WHAT THEY WILL SAY IS IF YOU CAN
WHAT THEY WILL SAY IS IF YOU CAN FIND A WAY FOR YOUR KID TO BE
FIND A WAY FOR YOUR KID TO BE GREAT AT TENNIS OR GREAT AT CREW
GREAT AT TENNIS OR GREAT AT CREW OR GREAT AT SOCCER, WE CAN FIND
OR GREAT AT SOCCER, WE CAN FIND A WAY FOR THEM TO GET THEM IN OR
A WAY FOR THEM TO GET THEM IN OR AT LEAST RECOMMENDED TO GET THEM
AT LEAST RECOMMENDED TO GET THEM ON THAT TEAM AND THEY WOULDN’T
ON THAT TEAM AND THEY WOULDN’T SHOW UP OR DROP OUT PLAYING FOR
SHOW UP OR DROP OUT PLAYING FOR THAT TEAM.
THAT TEAM. THAT HAPPENS SOMETIMES IN THE
THAT HAPPENS SOMETIMES IN THE NATURAL COURSE OF RECRUITING FOR
NATURAL COURSE OF RECRUITING FOR ATHLETES.
ATHLETES. IT’S NOT A HUGE RED FLAG, I
IT’S NOT A HUGE RED FLAG, I PARTICULARLY IN LESSER TIER
PARTICULARLY IN LESSER TIER PROGRAMS.
PROGRAMS. WE’LL COME IN UNDER THAT AND IN
WE’LL COME IN UNDER THAT AND IN ADDITION WE’LL HELP THEM TAKE
ADDITION WE’LL HELP THEM TAKE THE TEST OR TAKE THE TEST FOR
THE TEST OR TAKE THE TEST FOR THEM OR GIVE THEM UNLIMITED
THEM OR GIVE THEM UNLIMITED TIME.
TIME. THERE ARE PERFECTLY GOOD MENTAL
THERE ARE PERFECTLY GOOD MENTAL REASONS TO GET ADDITIONAL TIME
REASONS TO GET ADDITIONAL TIME ON A TEST.
ON A TEST. WHEN YOU HAVE SOMEBODY BEING
WHEN YOU HAVE SOMEBODY BEING BRIBED TO GIVE THAT STUDENT MORE
BRIBED TO GIVE THAT STUDENT MORE TIME, THAT’S AN ENTIRELY
TIME, THAT’S AN ENTIRELY DIFFERENT STORY.
DIFFERENT STORY. >> IN SOME CASES -- SORRY TO
>> IN SOME CASES -- SORRY TO INTERRUPT -- YOU HAD PARENTS
INTERRUPT -- YOU HAD PARENTS INVENTING PROBLEMS THE KIDS HAD,
INVENTING PROBLEMS THE KIDS HAD, WHETHER EMOTIONAL OR STRESS,
WHETHER EMOTIONAL OR STRESS, GOING A PSYCHIATRIST AND GETTING
GOING A PSYCHIATRIST AND GETTING A FAKE DIAGNOSIS TO GET MORE
A FAKE DIAGNOSIS TO GET MORE TIME TO TAKE THE TEST.
TIME TO TAKE THE TEST. >> ALL OF THAT TIES UP TO THIS
>> ALL OF THAT TIES UP TO THIS NOVEL LEGAL THEORY WHERE YOU
NOVEL LEGAL THEORY WHERE YOU HAVE INSTITUTIONS RECEIVING MORE
HAVE INSTITUTIONS RECEIVING MORE THAN $10,000 IN FEDERAL FUNDS.
THAN $10,000 IN FEDERAL FUNDS. AT THAT POINT, THE JUSTICE
AT THAT POINT, THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SAID, YOU KNOW WHAT,
DEPARTMENT SAID, YOU KNOW WHAT, IF YOU’RE GOING TO CHEAT WHEN
IF YOU’RE GOING TO CHEAT WHEN WE’RE INVOLVED WITH TAXPAYER
WE’RE INVOLVED WITH TAXPAYER MONEY YOU’VE JUST OPENED THE
MONEY YOU’VE JUST OPENED THE DOOR FOR US TO INVESTIGATE.
DOOR FOR US TO INVESTIGATE. WHAT’S GOING ON WITH WILLIAM
WHAT’S GOING ON WITH WILLIAM SINGER AND HIM PLEADING GUILTY,
SINGER AND HIM PLEADING GUILTY, NOT ONLY DO YOU HAVE PRESUMABLY
NOT ONLY DO YOU HAVE PRESUMABLY THE PAYMENTS HERE, RIGHT, YOU
THE PAYMENTS HERE, RIGHT, YOU HAVE PAYMENTS FROM THE HIGH
HAVE PAYMENTS FROM THE HIGH PROFILE HOLLYWOOD TYPES, CEOs OF
PROFILE HOLLYWOOD TYPES, CEOs OF LAW FIRMS AND PAYMENTS GOING IN.
LAW FIRMS AND PAYMENTS GOING IN. AND E-MAIL EXCHANGES FROM LORI
AND E-MAIL EXCHANGES FROM LORI LOUGHLIN AND HER HUSBAND, WE
LOUGHLIN AND HER HUSBAND, WE WILL GET A PICTURE OF HER ON A
WILL GET A PICTURE OF HER ON A ROWING MACHINE.
ROWING MACHINE. AFTER THEY ARREST SINGER AND
AFTER THEY ARREST SINGER AND INVOLVE HIM IN COOPERATING,
INVOLVE HIM IN COOPERATING, COOPERATING WITNESS NUMBER ONE
COOPERATING WITNESS NUMBER ONE IN THE COURT DOCUMENTS, YOU HAVE
IN THE COURT DOCUMENTS, YOU HAVE HIM MAKING CALLS BACK TO THE
HIM MAKING CALLS BACK TO THE PEOPLE AND SAYING, THE IRS MAY
PEOPLE AND SAYING, THE IRS MAY AUDIT THIS.
AUDIT THIS. REMEMBER, IF THEY CALL YOU, IT’S
REMEMBER, IF THEY CALL YOU, IT’S A DONATION, RIGHT, DON’T MENTION
A DONATION, RIGHT, DON’T MENTION THE THING WE DID FOR YOUR
THE THING WE DID FOR YOUR DAUGHTER OR SON OR CHILD.
DAUGHTER OR SON OR CHILD. IT IS STRONG EVIDENCE IF IT GOES
IT IS STRONG EVIDENCE IF IT GOES TO TRIAL.
TO TRIAL. >> WHAT IS THE LEGAL EXPOSURE.
>> WHAT IS THE LEGAL EXPOSURE. WE KNOW WILLIAM SINGER’S LEGAL
WE KNOW WILLIAM SINGER’S LEGAL EXPOSURE, FOR SOME OF THE
EXPOSURE, FOR SOME OF THE PARENTS AND CELEBRITY NAMES WE
PARENTS AND CELEBRITY NAMES WE HEARD HERE?
HEARD HERE? >> MAIL WIRE FRAUD CARRIES A
>> MAIL WIRE FRAUD CARRIES A STATUTORY MAXIMUM OF 20 YEARS.
STATUTORY MAXIMUM OF 20 YEARS. THAT’S NOT LIKELY TO BE AN
THAT’S NOT LIKELY TO BE AN ACTUAL SENTENCE UNDER THE
ACTUAL SENTENCE UNDER THE GUIDELINES BECAUSE PRESUMABLY
GUIDELINES BECAUSE PRESUMABLY WE’RE DEALING WITH MOSTLY FIRST
WE’RE DEALING WITH MOSTLY FIRST TIME OFFENDERS HERE.
TIME OFFENDERS HERE. THE MAIL AND WIRE FRAUD IS OVER
THE MAIL AND WIRE FRAUD IS OVER 100 YEARS OLD DESIGNED TO AVOID
100 YEARS OLD DESIGNED TO AVOID CITY SLICKERS TO DEPRIVE COUNTRY
CITY SLICKERS TO DEPRIVE COUNTRY FOLKS OF THEIR PROPERTY AND
FOLKS OF THEIR PROPERTY AND SERVICES.
SERVICES. IN MODERN TIMES THIS IS AN
IN MODERN TIMES THIS IS AN APPLICATION OF THAT SAME LAW TO
APPLICATION OF THAT SAME LAW TO NOT DEPRIVE THE UNIVERSITY OF
NOT DEPRIVE THE UNIVERSITY OF ITS PROPERTY BUT ITS GOOD WILL,
ITS PROPERTY BUT ITS GOOD WILL, SERVICES, HONEST ADMISSIONS
SERVICES, HONEST ADMISSIONS PROCESS.
PROCESS. IT’S AN INTERESTING APPLICATION
IT’S AN INTERESTING APPLICATION OF MAIL AND WIRE FRAUD STATUTES
OF MAIL AND WIRE FRAUD STATUTES TO THESE PARENTS WHO JUST
TO THESE PARENTS WHO JUST THOUGHT THEY WERE PAYING A
THOUGHT THEY WERE PAYING A LITTLE EXTRA TO GET THEIR KIDS
LITTLE EXTRA TO GET THEIR KIDS INTO COLLEGE.
INTO COLLEGE. THERE’S THE QUESTION OF ALL THE
THERE’S THE QUESTION OF ALL THE KIDS THAT DIDN’T GET IN THESE
KIDS THAT DIDN’T GET IN THESE SCHOOLS BECAUSE THESE KIDS DID
SCHOOLS BECAUSE THESE KIDS DID GET IN, TAKING UP THE SPOT.
GET IN, TAKING UP THE SPOT. ON THE COACH SIDE, I’M SO
ON THE COACH SIDE, I’M SO FASCINATED.
FASCINATED. A THOUSAND QUESTIONS.
A THOUSAND QUESTIONS. YOU TALKED ABOUT THE SOCCER
YOU TALKED ABOUT THE SOCCER COACH AT YALE WHO MADE $2.7
COACH AT YALE WHO MADE $2.7 MILLION.
MILLION. WHAT IS THAT FIRST ASK LIKE FROM
WHAT IS THAT FIRST ASK LIKE FROM SINGER?
SINGER? HE CALLS THE COACH, KNOWS THE
HE CALLS THE COACH, KNOWS THE COACH, HEY, I HAVE AN IDEA FOR
COACH, HEY, I HAVE AN IDEA FOR YOU, YOU CAN MAKE A COUPLE BUCKS
YOU, YOU CAN MAKE A COUPLE BUCKS DOING THIS.
DOING THIS. THAT’S A PRETTY RISKY THING TO
THAT’S A PRETTY RISKY THING TO ASK SOMEBODY WHO CAN CALL THE
ASK SOMEBODY WHO CAN CALL THE AUTHORITIES AND SAY THERE’S
AUTHORITIES AND SAY THERE’S SOMETHING WRONG GOING ON HERE.
SOMETHING WRONG GOING ON HERE. HOW DOES IT START?
HOW DOES IT START? >> YOU TOUCHED ON SOMETHING
>> YOU TOUCHED ON SOMETHING IMPORTANT HERE.
IMPORTANT HERE. THIS IS AN ONGOING
THIS IS AN ONGOING INVESTIGATION.
INVESTIGATION. YESTERDAY, WE GOT A LITTLE BIT
YESTERDAY, WE GOT A LITTLE BIT OF WINDOW INSIDE OF THIS.
OF WINDOW INSIDE OF THIS. A HUGE WINDOW, FRANKLY, BARN
A HUGE WINDOW, FRANKLY, BARN DOOR TO LOOK INSIDE AND SEE HOW
DOOR TO LOOK INSIDE AND SEE HOW THIS SCHEME WAS PUT TOGETHER.
THIS SCHEME WAS PUT TOGETHER. THE SPECIFIC NATURE AS FAR AS
THE SPECIFIC NATURE AS FAR AS HOW THIS ALL CAME TOGETHER, HOW
HOW THIS ALL CAME TOGETHER, HOW DO YOU KNOW WHO TO APPROACH,
DO YOU KNOW WHO TO APPROACH, WHICH COACHES YOU APPROACH?
WHICH COACHES YOU APPROACH? IT WENT COAST-TO-COAST, USC AND
IT WENT COAST-TO-COAST, USC AND STANFORD AND SOME SCHOOLS
STANFORD AND SOME SCHOOLS INVOLVED IN THIS.
INVOLVED IN THIS. HOW DID HE KNOW WHO TO GO TO AND
HOW DID HE KNOW WHO TO GO TO AND WHO TO PICK, SOME QUESTIONS WE
WHO TO PICK, SOME QUESTIONS WE WANT ANSWERS TO.
WANT ANSWERS TO. ONCE IT WAS ESTABLISHED, ONCE
ONCE IT WAS ESTABLISHED, ONCE THESE COACHES WERE ON THE TAKE,
THESE COACHES WERE ON THE TAKE, IT WAS, WHERE DOES YOUR KID WANT
IT WAS, WHERE DOES YOUR KID WANT TO GO TO SCHOOL?
TO GO TO SCHOOL? I HAVE AN IDEA.
I HAVE AN IDEA. OH, THEY PLAYED A LITTLE BIT OF
OH, THEY PLAYED A LITTLE BIT OF SOCCER, WE CAN PHOTOSHOP A
SOCCER, WE CAN PHOTOSHOP A PICTURE.
PICTURE. IT COMES TOGETHER AND YOU HAVE
IT COMES TOGETHER AND YOU HAVE KEY PEOPLE IN RIGHT PLACES AND
KEY PEOPLE IN RIGHT PLACES AND BECOMES A RACKETEERING
BECOMES A RACKETEERING CONSPIRACY AND YOU HAVE AN
CONSPIRACY AND YOU HAVE AN OVERARCHING PLAN HERE AND ONE OF
OVERARCHING PLAN HERE AND ONE OF THE REASONS THEY PUT THIS
THE REASONS THEY PUT THIS TOGETHER AND PUT THE HEAT ON
TOGETHER AND PUT THE HEAT ON THOSE INVOLVED IN THIS BECAUSE
THOSE INVOLVED IN THIS BECAUSE IT WAS SO LAID OUT OF WHO TO GO
IT WAS SO LAID OUT OF WHO TO GO TO, WHO TO PAY AND HOW MUCH.
TO, WHO TO PAY AND HOW MUCH. >> WHEN THE KID GETS TO YALE AND
>> WHEN THE KID GETS TO YALE AND DOESN’T KNOW HOW TO PLAY SOCCER,
DOESN’T KNOW HOW TO PLAY SOCCER, FOR EXAMPLE, THE KID GETS TO USC
FOR EXAMPLE, THE KID GETS TO USC AND NEVER SAT IN A BOAT BEFORE
AND NEVER SAT IN A BOAT BEFORE TO ROW, WHAT HAPPENS?
TO ROW, WHAT HAPPENS? >> APPARENTLY, THAT WAS IT.
>> APPARENTLY, THAT WAS IT. IN ONE SPECIFIC INSTANCE, ONE OR
IN ONE SPECIFIC INSTANCE, ONE OR TWO DAYS THEY WOULD PRACTICE
TWO DAYS THEY WOULD PRACTICE WITH THE TEAM AND APPEAR THEY
WITH THE TEAM AND APPEAR THEY WOULD NOT BE THE PLAYER THEY
WOULD NOT BE THE PLAYER THEY WERE SUPPOSED TO BE OR PLAYER AT
WERE SUPPOSED TO BE OR PLAYER AT ALL AND IT’S OVER.
ALL AND IT’S OVER. THIS DOES SOMETIMES HAPPEN IN
THIS DOES SOMETIMES HAPPEN IN SPORTS, THEY GET RECRUITED AND
SPORTS, THEY GET RECRUITED AND GO TO SCHOOLS AND JUST LOSE IT.
GO TO SCHOOLS AND JUST LOSE IT. I HAD FRIENDS THAT GOT RECRUITED
I HAD FRIENDS THAT GOT RECRUITED AND GO TO SCHOOLS AND DIDN’T
AND GO TO SCHOOLS AND DIDN’T WORK OUT.
WORK OUT. >> AT LEAST THEY PLAYED BEFORE.
>> AT LEAST THEY PLAYED BEFORE. >> THEY’VE PLAYED BEFORE AND
>> THEY’VE PLAYED BEFORE AND SEEN -- ACTUALLY ROWED BEFORE,